# Rules and Regulations

**1. ANIMALS** -- Pet owners
should always use the freight elevator to take pets to and from their
residence. Under no circumstances are pets allowed on the passenger
elevator unless they are being carried. No Owner shall have more than
two (2) pets at any one time (excluding fish). No pet shall be permitted
on the Common Elements unless carried or leashed by a person that can
control the pet. All pets shall be controlled so as not to create a
nuisance or unreasonable disturbance (including loud and excessive
barking). Owners shall clean-up immediately after their pet in an
accident occurs and shall be responsible for any damages. If any owner
violates these rules more than twice in any twelve (12) month period,
then in addition to any fines levied, the Association shall have the
right to require the Owner to remove the pet permanently from the
Property upon not less than ten (10) days' written notice.

**2. ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL** -- No exterior change or alteration of any
type is permitted. Further, no building, landscaping, fence, wall, or
other structure shall be commenced, erected, or maintained upon the
Property, nor shall any exterior addition to or change or alteration to
either the Unit or the Common Elements be made, until the plans, ands
specification showing the nature, kind, shape, height, materials and
location of the same shall have been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Association, in its sole discretion. No owner shall make
any improvements or alterations in or to his Unit that may impair the
structural integrity or mechanical systems or lessen the support of any
portion of the Condominium or to any Limited Common Element; for example
(but not limited to), moving walls, removing flooring, penetrating
concrete, etc.. A request must be made in writing to management company
and submitted for approval. If in doubt, it is best to submit the
application to avoid any potential damages. A copy of the required
application is located on your community website. The architectural
review committee may or may not approve the request. A written reply
will be made by the managing agent after the application is reviewed.
See the Condominium Declaration for more information.

**3. ASSESSMENTS** -- Homeowner Association fees are due on the first of
each month. Assessments that are not received by the fifteenth day of
each month are delinquent and legal action may be taken for collection.
Unpaid assessments are subject to an 18% interest charge over fifteen
days late. Costs of collection including, but not limited to, legal fees
and court costs are borne by the delinquent property owner.

**4. AUTOMOTIVE REPAIRS** -- No significant automobile repair shall be
allowed in the parking areas. No automobile parts may be stored on or
about the common areas in the parking lots.

**5. BALCONIES** -- The balconies adjacent to each unit shall always be
kept in a clean, neat and orderly condition and shall not be used for
storage (i.e. coolers, stacked chairs, indoor furniture, etc.), cooking,
or for the drying of laundry. Towels, banners, planters, flags, and bird
and/or squirrel feeders shall not be hung on the balcony railings or
installed on the balcony patio. Any dead plants shall be removed
promptly. No indoor-outdoor carpeting, hot tub, or other pool shall be
installed on any balcony.

**6. CLOTHESLINES** -- No clotheslines are permitted.

**7. COMMON AREAS **-- Each owner should protect their interest in the
common area. Please do not litter or restrict enjoyment of the common
areas.

**8. DAMAGES CAUSED BY OWNER, HIS AGENTS, INVITEES OR FAMILY MEMBERS** -- Any 
damage caused by negligence or intentional misconduct from the
named above will be the responsibility of that Owner. The association
shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair of all Common
Elements, except for the Limited Common Elements, exclusive to a unit
(excluding the parking areas, and the common elevators and corridors
within each Building, all of which shall be maintained by the
Association). The Association may repair the damages and charge the
costs of the repair to the owner responsible for the damage.

**9. HAZARDS** -- The discharge of firearms, fireworks and other
noisemaking or explosive devices are not permitted at The Dawson on
Morgan. The storage and use of any hazardous material are restricted in
type and quantity to those which are appropriate for use in or about the
home and must be in strict accordance with safety requirements and
applicable law.

**10. HOT WATER HEATER** -- Each owner is required to show documented
proof that their individual hot water heaters have been replaced within
or at the suggested 10-year lifespan.

**11. HVAC** -- Each HVAC system has one air handler and one rooftop
compressor. The air handler is located above the ceiling through an
access panel in the washer/dryer or closet area. The rooftop compressor
is located on the roof on specially designed platforms. Most units have
one HVAC system conditioning their space, and larger units have two
systems (one thermostat = one unit). Thermostats are 7-day 24 hour
programmable, with the instruction guide provided in your warranty
package. An overflow alarm is required in the drip pan.

**12. INTERIOR CONSTRUCTION** -- Should any owner wish to perform major
interior construction in a unit, the owner must first obtain prior
written approval from the Association for the full scope of work to be
performed. Major interior construction will include any structural
changes and modifications, hardwood floors and tiling. Interior
construction does not include such items as occasional painting of one
or two rooms, replacing appliances including hot water heaters, and/or
any work already authorized by and through the Association such as HVAC
repair and replacement. Owner shall submit written plans and specs in
enough detail to describe the full scope of work, along with a list of
all vendors/contractor with full contact information and insurance
certificates, to the Association for review and approval. The
Association has fifteen (15) days to approve or disapprove of any work
to be performed, with such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. No
work shall require access to any other unit, above or below, except with
the unit owner's expressed written permission. Prior to construction
commencement, vendors/contractors shall coordinate access to the
building through management company. All construction materials and
vendors should only use the freight elevator. Owners are responsible for
ensuring that contractors have reserved the use of the loading dock and
freight elevator through management company. A fine of \$500 per
occurrence will be imposed to the homeowners account if the passenger
elevator is used to transport any construction material in addition to
any damages resulting. Construction vehicles must only park in the
owner's assigned space and/or loading dock with prior permission or they
will be subject to immediate towing. Owners shall always be responsible
for the performance and actions of all vendors/subcontractors under its
employ. Work shall take place only between the hours of 8:00 am and 5:00
pm Monday through Friday and 9:00 am to 3:00 pm on Saturdays and no work
shall be performed during nationally recognized holidays. Owners are
prohibited from performing work on or about the common areas without
prior written permission. Failure to do so shall carry a fine of \$500
When the work is completed, the Association and owner shall inspect the
common areas to determine if any damage is deemed to have been caused by
owner's vendor/contractors. The owner will be responsible for the cost
of all repairs to the common areas or other property owners' units.

**13. INSURANCE** -- The Association does provide an all risk blanket
insurance coverage plan for the exterior of the building for property,
liability and fidelity insurance at a rate of 100% of the replacement
cost of the Building at the time such insurance is purchased. A separate
policy designed for condominiums is required for personal property, and
as well as a minimum liability insurance as established by the
Association. The individual Property Owner is responsible for the
Associations \$5,000 deductible. Coverage to pay this expense should be
added to the owner's policy. The owner is responsible for liability
claims that arise inside the unit, their own personal belongings and for
displacement.

**14. KEYS** -- Each Owner is required to make one (1) key available to
the Association for the unit\'s entry door. No Owner is permitted to
install new locks or rekey a Unit unless authorized by the Association
(which authorization shall not be unreasonably withheld provided the
work meets municipal codes and regulations) and provided Owner makes one
(1) new key available to the Association. Keys are kept in a secure
location and management company will not access any unit without the
owner's advanced approval, unless in the case of an emergency, (water,
smoke, fire). Only bonded and insured vendors authorized by management
company to perform maintenance in the Units (HVAC maintenance, for
example) may be given access to keys. It is recommended each Owner keep
an extra set of keys to their Unit in their personal lock box in case
they lock themselves out. All owners will be given two swipe card keys
for doors that require this type of access along with two regular keys
to common area doors and stairwells. Should an electronic entry door
lock be installed, a code must be provided to the management company for
purposes set forth above.

**15. LEASES/TENANTS (Sec 8.6)** -- Any lease of a Unit or a portion
thereof shall be in writing and all tenants, guests and invitees must
comply with the by-laws of the Association including Rules and
Regulations established by the Board of Directors. Tenants must be
informed of this responsibility and supplied a copy of the Rules and
Regulations by the owner. All leases shall be subject in all respects to
the Condominium Documents and any failure by the lessee to comply with
all terms of the Condominium Documents shall constitute a default under
the lease. A copy of the lease, along with full personal contact
information for the landlord and the tenant shall be delivered to the
Association prior to the tenant's occupancy. Evidence of insurance is
also required. No Unit may be leased for a period shorter than six (6)
months. Failure to provide a copy of the lease may subject the owner to
a fine of \$500 per day once noted.

**16. MAINTENANCE & REPAIRS** -- Owners are responsible for all interior
repairs and maintenance of their units. The condition of the common
areas (everything outside the condominium units) is the responsibility
of the Homeowners Association as directed by the Board. The Board has
hired CAS, Inc. to manage the common areas. Please contact them at
910-295-3791 to report problems. Details about maintenance
responsibility can be found in the "Maintenance Responsibility Chart"
you will find inserted further in this package. The Covenants authorize
the Board to have right-of- access to the condominiums should a
situation adversely impact the common areas or endanger other units.

**17. MAILBOXES** -- Mailboxes are located adjacent to the lobby
entrance and parking area. Federal law prohibits unauthorized entry of
mailboxes. If you have lost your mailbox key or require additional
mailbox keys, please contact your local post office. It's recommended to
make a spare mailbox key.

**18. NOISE** -- The Dawson on Morgan is inside the City of Raleigh and
therefore falls within the city's noise ordinance. If you are disturbed
by loud noise, you should first attempt to contact the source of the
noise. If the source is uncooperative and the problem persists, contact
the Raleigh Police Department. You can report noise complaints to
919-831-6311.

**19. PARKING** -- Parking space number(s) are assigned to each Unit at
The Dawson on Morgan and a schedule of assigned spaces is provided in
this package. Each unit is assigned a license authorizing that unit
owner to use certain parking spaces. This license is provided when the
unit is first purchased, and thereafter parking spaces are not
reassigned. Please note that there are no visitor parking spaces. Public
parking is conveniently located across in several parking garages near
the community for your guests, vendors, and other visitors to use while
at the Dawson. The Association maintains the entire parking area: spaces
drive isles, security gates, and fencing. The Association also maintains
a master list of each owner\'s licensed parking space. Each unit owner
is asked to use common courtesy: do not park in other owner\'s assigned
spaces, keep your vehicle inside the parking lines, drive slowly, and be
careful opening your car doors. No owner, or any employee, agent, or
invitee of any Owner, shall park, store, or keep any vehicle on the
Property except wholly within the designated parking spaces and shall
not block any entrance, drive aisles, and fire lanes. No boat, boat
trailer, motor home, travel trailer, camper or other recreational
vehicle may be stored on the Property at any time. The Association shall
have the right to tow any vehicle in violation of this at the owner's
expense. In addition to having the rights to tow, the Association shall
have the right to levy fines as follows: First offense during any twelve
(12) month period - \$50.00; Second Offense during any twelve (12) month
period - \$75.00; any violations over two (2) in any twelve (12) month
period - \$100.00. Fines imposed for parking violations shall be
considered special assessments and shall be due and payable upon receipt
of the parking violation.

**20. PET WASTE** -- The only area designated for walking pets is the
exterior of the building. Please take pets in and out through either the
stairwell or the freight elevator only as pets are not allowed in the
passenger elevator at any time. All excrement from pets should be
immediately cleaned up and removed and disposed of in a closed
container. The City of Raleigh requires that all pets be curbed and that
the owner dispose of the waste as stated above. The Association will
assess a fine of \$250 to any owner that does not pick up pet waste. Do
not allow pets to relieve themselves in the parking garage or any other
common areas.

**21. RECYCLING** -- Grime Control Cleaning Service is responsible for
recycling pick up. There are 3 recycling containers located in the trash
room. The trash room can be accessed by first entering door to left of
freight elevator (facing the elevator) with your access card and/or key
fob and then through the door to your right (unlocked). Plastic bottles,
glass, aluminum, newspapers (and their inserts) and magazines will be
accepted. You do not have to separate the items; Grime Control Cleaning
Service will sort through the items once the recyclables have been
delivered to their facility. Thank you for choosing to recycle!

**22. SECURITY SYSTEMS** -- The building has a security system for the
entry lobby and vehicle entry gate that are owner specific which records
door and time/date of entry information. In addition to unit keys,
owners will be supplied two (2) entry fobs to operate the first-floor
lobby doors and vehicle entry gate. Additional entry fobs are available
for \$15.00 each. Vehicle sticker transponders are available at owner
request for \$15.00. Nine security cameras are included in the security
system package.

**23. SIGNS AND FLAGS** -- No signs or other advertising devices shall
be displayed on or about the exterior of any Unit, or in the Common
Elements, except for one (1) building standard unit number sign as part
of the uniform signage program for the building not exceeding
twenty-four (24) square inches in area on the main door to each unit. No
pole or other devise for the display of decorative flags shall be
erected or displayed on or about the exterior of any Unit, or in the
Common Elements unless approved in advance by the Association.

**24. SPEED LIMIT** -- The speed limit inside the Common area shall be
10 miles per hour. Exercise caution when driving through the parking lot
of The Dawson on Morgan in order to ensure the safety of residents and
guests.

**25. TRASH** -- Trash removal is provided by Waste Industries. For all
household trash, there is a trash chute located near the freight
elevator on each floor that dumps into a trash compactor on the first
floor. Only bagged household trash goes in the trash chute. DO NOT put
the following in the trash chute: pizza boxes (unless cut into small
pieces and bagged), newspapers, and cardboard. Furniture, mattresses,
and other large trash items require special hauling; please contact
management company to arrange for removal, for which there will be an
extra charge depending on the scope of work. The Association is
authorized to charge owners for the cost of removing unauthorized trash
left in and around the building. It is imperative that the trash chutes
on each floor are closed completely after each use.

**26. YARD SALES** -- Yard sales are not permitted.

**27. PERSONAL PROPERTY** -- Personal property including toys, bicycles,
skateboards, garbage cans and recycling bins should not be left in the
Common or parking areas.

**28. SATELLITE DISH SERVICE** -- In no event shall any exterior
television antenna or satellite dish be mounted or placed on the
exterior surface or patio balcony of any unit. A rooftop exterior
television antenna and satellite dish area has been established for
placement of these devices and this shall be the only area in and around
the Building that such devices shall be permitted. In addition, in the
event the Association contracts with one (1) satellite service vendor to
provide building-wide subscription services for unit owners, then all
owners shall obtain satellite service solely from this vendor. In all
instances, antenna or satellite dish located on this rooftop area shall
be screened from public view. Only in the event there is no Association
authorized service vendor available to provide service as described
above shall an owner be permitted to install a satellite dish or antenna
on the roof. In this case, prior to installing the antenna or satellite
dish, the owner shall furnish to the Association a copy of the owner's
installation plans. The Association shall have the right to perform any
portion of the installation work at the expense of the owner, or to
require that any portion of the work be performed by contractors
designated by the Association and in ways consistent with the existing
infrastructure, shafts, and penetrations in the Building. The owner
shall also be responsible for removal of any antenna or satellite dish
and associated mounting and wiring when services for the device are
cancelled. In addition, the owner shall be responsible for any damage
caused by the removal of the antenna or satellite dish and associated
mounting and wiring, including the sealing of conduits or other roof
penetrations. Owners installing an antenna or satellite dish shall
indemnify, defend and hold the Association harmless from and against any
loss, damage, claim or other liability resulting from the installation,
maintenance, repair, use and/or removal of the antenna or satellite
dish, including but not limited to any damage to the corridor walls and
ceilings as well as the roof of the Building or other property damage
caused by installation or use or roof leaks.

**29. STORM DOORS** -- No storm doors are allowed.

**30. WINDOW/DOOR SCREENS** -- Per the \"Maintenance Responsibility
Chart,\" homeowners are responsible for maintaining, removing, or
replacing window and sliding door screens. This includes facilitating
Homeowners Association activities like window and building washing.
Homeowners are also liable for damages from dropped screens. Replacement
screens require property manager approval to maintain architectural
uniformity.
